---
title : "Rocky, Office 12"
author : "Niklas"
date : "2005-11-19"
categories : 
 - heroes
 - reading
 - tech
---

It's interesting to see the lingo in Rocky, a Swedish comic that's now getting attention in the USA. The comic contains a lot of English to begin with, as Rocky basically is a wigger, e.g. check [this typical example](http://www.fantagraphics.com/blog/archive/2005_11_01_fantagraphics_archive.html#113209692328970289) out. On the other hand that strip is quite on the spot in a very satirical way. A lot of people - and trust me, I'm not excluding myself - like to think they're one of the black stereotypes. That's all because a lot of us whiteys in Sweden love hip-hop, and most of the guys making that music are black, and there's a certain twist to the hip-hop vocabulary, even though I think it's the most versatile language in any genre that's come out in the last years. Hip-hop is spoken word, poetry and "the black man's CNN" (as Chuck D somewhat generally once called it). Hence, there's a huge difference between lingual hip-hop skills and, say, 50 Cent's vocabulary, which is why I suppose it's more fun to make fun of the prejudiced over-the-top lyrics and life of Fiddy than of A Tribe Called Quest or The Jungle Brothers. That Rocky strip says it all. Anyway, it's zany to see Rocky being _all_ English, as opposed to reading it mostly in Swedish with a few everyday English lines thrown in. I hope it's going to do good in the US. It's quite a feministic comic as well, and how usual is that? Street-smart, people.

Office 12 beta 1 is kinda nice. [Here](http://news.com.com/2300-1012_3-5961343-1.html) are some new screen-shots from CNet, showing stuff like how Outlook now incorporates more data in one screen (without making it look muddled) and how the File-menu now looks; you know how it contains a list of recently used files? Now, things are different. Next to every file-name there's a push-pin. If you click it, that file name will stay in the list until you pull that pin up. Sweet, huh? I'm a real nerd about this, I know.

I've managed to do all types of stuff using beta 1, in very little time, where I previously required a lot of time and effort to get cracking. Microsoft (or rather, the MS Office team) has spent a lot of time thinking about how people really use the suite, done their research, and hence I've managed to pull off some really nice things in Office 12 beta 1 quickly, e.g. using conditional formatting to see the top 10% numbers out of an array in Excel, or I can start "upsizing" an Access database to an MS SQL Server platform in just one click or make a graph beveled with shadows, a multitude of colours and transparency in just a few seconds. I'm very eager to see how MS is going to incorporate Groove, the semi-newly-acquired company that Ray Ozzie founded, before he went over to the dark side Microsoft, into MS Office. It seems companies will be able to run their own Groove-server, which I think may be the great step for many companies to use to manage online projects and carry online meetings through. Sweet.

[Here](http://www.sunflowerhead.com/msimages/FeaturesByVersion.png)'s a pretty graph (entirely made in Excel) showing how many new functions are incorporated in Office 12, so far. Very impressive. And if you're into Excel, or just would like a quick step into how Office 12 can be used, check out [this site](http://blogs.msdn.com/excel/default.aspx), filled with pictures and real-life examples on how you can [use Excel with server-side calculations](https://blogs.msdn.com/excel/archive/2005/11/08/490502.aspx) done in real-time, web services being utilised in magnificent ways and [how to make great-looking graphs](http://blogs.msdn.com/excel/archive/2005/11/18/494558.aspx). I'm actually really excited about the coming version of MS Excel!
