---
title : "Muxtape #22"
author : "Niklas"
date : "2008-10-03"
categories : 
 - music
---

1\. **Warren Zevon** - "Werewolves of London"

Zevon was kind of a Hunter S. Thompson of the music world, being a great lyricist. Indeed, they both knew and respected each other. This track sounds like it's made to be played late in a bar. Bits of the lyrics that I like:

> I saw a werewolf with a Chinese menu in his hand Walking through the streets of Soho in the rain
> 
> \[...\]
> 
> I saw a werewolf drinking a pià±a colada at Trader Vic's His hair was perfect

The lyrics remind me of Pulp's "_[Dogs Are Everywhere](http://www.lyricsdepot.com/pulp/dogs-are-everywhere.html)_".

2\. **The Go! Team** - "Friendship Update"

A fresco instrumental off their debut album.

3\. **Okkervil River** - "Yellow"

I cannot possibly describe this song. [Will's the man](http://www.jound.com/okkervil/lyrics/yellow.html).

4\. **Public Enemy** - "Shut 'em Down"

Chuck D tells us to fight the power again and to these beats, who won't?

5\. **Thee Michelle Gun Elephant** - "ABAKARETA SEKAI (The World Exposed)"

From what could very well be my favourite twangy rock outfit - except for Morrissey's backing band, of course - rings this. To be heard very loudly.

6\. **Mystery Jets** - "The Boy Who Ran Away"

Despite of their second album being a disappointment to me, this track from their debut serves as a reminder of their greatness. Still, there are a few great tracks from the new one that are very good.

7\. **Instant Life** - "Grasshopper"

This is one of the most secret groups in Sweden; consisting of Magnus Boman from Oven & Stove and Tomas à–berg, the vocalist of bob hund, one of the very best bands to ever emerge out of Sweden. Or Europe. Or the world. Anyway, this is very different from what their respective bands produce.

8\. **The Jesus And Mary Chain** - "Tumbledown"

Rhino has just released a compilation called "[The Power Of Negative Thinking: B-sides & Rarities](http://www.rhino.com/store/productdetail.lasso?number=202684)", as overlooked by the brothers Reid. Time for a new album, boys. This is a little reminder of their greatness.

9\. **Shitdisco** - "Reactor Party"

Somebody ought to kick Klaxons in the nuts for being so lame in comparison with this lot, and give them an award for lyrics like these:

> We've never heard of the Ministry of Sound and We've never heard of the underground and There's not enough polis to close it down Not enough polis in this whole town
> 
> Left over Soviet Infrastructure Fractured nuclear Fission rupture Furthest outpost of bourgeois hardcore Cossack dancing on a concrete dancefloor

10\. **Popsicle** - "Not Forever"

One of the strongest indie-bands to come out of Sweden, ever. Carrying two good songwriters and fierce tracks, this is probably their most well-known song, released a year or two before going defunct. Brilliant pop.

11\. **Space** - "Me and You vs The World"

While some may remember this English band from the hey-day of britpop best for songs like "_Female Of The Species_" and "_Neighbourhood_", this fantastic tale of love and death will forever be on my lovelist. ((As will the soundtrack for the film "Shooting Fish" be; this song is featured on [the notably great soundtrack](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0120122/soundtrack).))

12\. **ELO** - "Living Thing"

Nobody is allowed to oversee the power of this track. I mean, the violin? The high-pitched singing? The weird solos? The chorus, all arpeggio? You bet. Dancing my legs off to this song is one of my fave guilty pleasures.

13\. **Hedwig And The Angry Inch** - "Angry Inch"

If you're from before-the-wall Germany, you want to go to The Holy USA with the man of your dreams, and you just have to get your penis cut off, you do it, right? Well, Hansel Hedwig did just that, only to be kicked to the kerb a lonely housewife - or, rather caravan-wife - in the middle of Kansas. Well, sod that. Hedwig started playing Nirvana-covers with a bunch of Asian housewives and soon reinvented herself. Sounds insane? See [the film](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0248845)! Here's a bit of the lyrics for this song:

> My sex change operation got botched My guardian angel fell asleep on the watch Now all I've got is a barbie doll crotch I've got an angry inch

Cause for anger: accepted.

14\. **Vatican DC** - "Smiling Dogs"

Energetic, hell yes. I love the guitars on this track; I've seldom heard poppy guitars working this well together.
