---
title : "Muxtape #18"
author : "Niklas"
date : "2008-08-22"
categories : 
 - morrissey
 - music
---

As Muxtape is still sorting out what colours to paint their offices in in talks with RIAA about their service, I'm using another service to spread the magical enchantment that is music, through Imeem. I like Muxtape better, but still, Imeem deserves kudos for having created a quite simple way to upload music; it's still a lot less user-friendly than Muxtape, though. Anyway, here's the little playlist with an explanation of the music below:

1\. **Jon Brion** - "Overture"

This track is the initial for the soundtrack to "Punch-drunk Love", the only film I can remember ((Okay, "Happy Gilmore" being the sole exception to the rule, I admit.)) where Adam Sandler does a good part. Did he influence Jim Carrey to do "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" or was it the other way around?

2\. **Kirsty MacColl** - "A New England"

This wonderful, sadly late singer is probably most well-known for her duet with Shane McGowan in The Pogues' "_Fairytale of New York_ ((a.k.a. The Lament of MTV Come Christmas-time))", but had many a trick up her sleeve. This song is a cover of a song by Billy Bragg, and is very well-done. Bragg specially wrote two extra verses for MacColl's version. Do also try to check out her version of The Smiths' "_You Just Haven't Earned It Yet, Baby_", on which Johnny Marr plays guitar.

3\. **Nirvana** - "Smells Like Teen Spirit (Patrick Alavi Revox)"

This is a strong edit of the classic track by Nirvana; even though the intro is a tad tedious, the track kicks in and unveils a strong electro stomp.

4\. **The Jesus and Mary Chain** - "Far Gone and Out"

The JAMC go boogie and happy. No "_April Skies_" here. The percussion is excellent, and I love the fact that their stickmaster is a drum machine.

5\. **Jungle Brothers** - "Because I Got It Like That (Ultimatum Mix)"

This old hip-hop duo had one of their tracks remixed very well and jammed into Fatboy Slim's excellent DJ-mix "[On The Floor At The Boutique](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/On_the_Floor_at_the_Boutique)"; the lyrics are grand.

6\. **Jimmy Cliff** - "The Harder They Come"

_The_ righteous reggae anthem that propelled reggae into American - and European - mainstream, this is the title track to the most well-known reggae-themed film in modern day, "[The Harder They Come](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0070155)". Cliff sings of hardships and true to reggae form, fights the oppressors.

7\. **Jeff Buckley** - "I Know It's Over"

This is young Buckley's studio demo version of the third track from The Smiths' epic album "[The Queen Is Dead](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Queen_Is_Dead)"; equally one of the most harrowing tracks found in their back-catalogue, I think he does it right by exuding the sense of fully understanding it; I think it's hard not to feel that he did.

8\. **MGMT** - "Electric Feel (Justice Remix)"

A hard-to-find remix by Justice of MGMT's light electronic track. Disco feel, panic.

9\. **The Jon Spencer Blues Explosion** - "Sweet 'n' Sour"

Now called Blues Explosion, this band churns out some mean rockin' blues! It's great fun to play on electric guitar, just go to 11 and brutalise your distorted old amp. I love the breakdown part in this track where it goes calm before Judah Bauer's guitar-solo kills all lovingly. Blakka!

10\. **Charlie Parker** - "Ko-Ko"

I usually don't like jazz at all, but this track inspires and shoots me up when I'm about to get something done. I'm pushed towards stuff. I'm also thinking about the film "[The Talented Mr. Ripley](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0134119)", where this track is featured.

11\. **Eva Cassidy** - "It Doesn't Matter Anymore"

I love this little track by the late Cassidy, who seemed to be [posthumously praised](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eva_Cassidy#Posthumous_recognition) by the world when her music was re-released to sell millions. Reminds me of Laura Nyro, albeit without the funky soul she claimed.
