---
title : "Clawfinger vs Public Enemy"
author : "Niklas"
date : "2005-11-15"
categories : 
 - friends
 - health
 - heroes
 - music
 - party
 - people
---

Hear this now!

This Sunday I ventured to Gamla Tryckeriet, where Zak's band, [Clawfinger](http://clawfinger.net), held their release-party for their new album (which is called "Hate Yourself With Style", to be released on Friday). I went there with [Jesper](http://www.niklasblog.com/gallery2/main.php?g2_view=core.ShowItem&g2_itemId=201) and [Marie](http://www.flickr.com/photos/pivic/8206921), and met [Fanny](http://irving.se/fanny.html) and her band-mates on the way.

The party was a great success, with people pouring in. Everything went very smooth, and the band had really made an effort to make everything grand. The place was mainly a big warehouse, but it was warm, the staff was courteous and the band excellent. They started off by running a documentary titelled "Grumpy Old Men" which showed the band getting their shizz ready and the album together. The best part showed Bård (the guitarist) doing squats, i.e. lifting weights, with Zak suddenly popping up with his face under his ass, doing licking movements, loads of tongue - not actually touching anything (I think). Really, even though I know Zak and I'll, I don't think I've even heard of a band that takes such care of their audience. Check out their web-site and I think you'll agree.

They went on at 21:30, and by that time the doors to the [Public Enemy](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public_Enemy) concert had been open for 30 minutes. I was getting mighty scared that I'd be late, but at the same time I didn't wanna miss my mate live. They performed the entire album and as they're pretty tight and very entertaining their performance was very good - even though I'd like to see them in a smaller setting, such as when I saw them at [Debaser](http://www.debaser.nu).

I had to leave at 22:00, and ran to the trains. I caught one just in time, and cursed whenever it stood still too long. I ran from the station to Mondo, where I arrived at 22:30. I came in and had the fortune to pick a spot about five meters from the stage, and heard a tubby MC try to get the crowd excited by saying "Lawdy, lawd" about fifty times, call-and-response-style. Eh, say what? "I want all the _real_ hip-hop-heads to say it with me, aah, 'lawdy, lawd'". For the love of Bog, I don't think Chuck D himself was standing around going "lawdy, lawd" backstage, even though DJ Lord is the Public Enemy DJ nowadays. Fruk that. After about five minutes of that he broke off, thank lawd, and suddenly two men entered, members of Security Of The First World, dressed in black, donning black caps and the text "PUBLIC ENEMY" embroidered in small letters, on their chests. They were wearing boots and carrying samurai swords. They stood in silence, facing the audience, at the sides of the stage. Then a couple of more people entered, a guitarist and a drummer, kitting up. People were getting anxious, and suddenly Professor Griff was seen on-stage. People started yelling, but this was nothing against what happened after the bassist was called for, DJ Lord started scratching something recognisable and Chuck D came on stage - then the first song burst and people went insane. My head was about to f-ing melt. I jumped so high not even the fumes of Cypress Hill could match my Shaq-ish steps, and one of their old-school jams came on. I can't remember what track that was, but considering they only played one single track from their new album (not the one coming out in the beginning of next year) it was definitely old-school. People went insane and some guy and I started a mosh-pit by the time they played "Can't Truss It". They introduced each-other, Professor Griff performed some aerodynamic kicks at Flavor, Chuck made the audience chant "FUCK GEORGE BUSH/TONY BLAIR/RONALD REAGAN" and showed the (predominantly white) audience the importance of the fist in the air, the peace-sign and the index-finger-and-middle-finger-together-sign. Everybody jumped, signed and chanted the death of Dubya and his minions of evil. I felt at home!

The live set-up was quite good. The only thing I regretted was the sampled guitar for "By The Time I Get To Arizona" being swapped for the new, live axe, but the gang was still there. It was great hearing "Public Enemy #1", as Chuck D still has a stronghold on his voice. Flavor was great, too. Griff was good at the theatrics in the background, as was Chuck right before they did "Black Steel" and he was approached by a camouflage-dressed guy posing as a military recruiting or drafting officer - whom Chuck turned down. People jumped like MAD at times, but by the time the slower tracks, like "Give It Up" came on people felt tired. And farted. Oh yes. The place smelled like a latrine at times. Anyway, Flavor had a "yeah boiii"-contest with the crowd: let's see who can out-boi the Flavor - and few could. He held his "boiiiii" for around a minute or so. Believe me, it was way more fun than it reads. And Flavor's dances, whoa, they were good.

Did I mention he said "Hello Oslo!" at the beginning? Chuck D almost fell apart with laughter, but I think that shows they were 1) tired and 2) I don't think they're quite as hungry as they once were. Granted, they've been around for 20 years, are legendary and all, but if a show's not holding up one has to let go. The gig was quite short, but at times sheer genius. Too bad the only really bad track was "Fight The Power", the last of the show. A long guitar-solo can be a good thing at times, but not on that track, aaah! I liked the live guitar-playing the most on "Give It Up", but what almost really killed me was "Shut 'Em Down". DAMN that track was tight! Thing was, when I jumped up, somebody's elbow knocked me on the head, and on the way down my cheek thrust against somebody on the way up, so a double-header there. It didn't stop me though. It was all fun.

After washing up I went to bed, tired and happy. Too bad I didn't get to see the Claws live some more, but what I saw was good.
