---
title : "Dreams"
author : "Niklas"
date : "2005-05-07"
categories : 
 - health
 - insane
 - people
---

I dreamt last night. Oh, did I dream. Here's a barrage:

1\. Zak was going to move (which he in fact is, this month) and wanted Jessica, his girl-friend, to drive most of their stuff in a big lorry, while he and I were to drive small bits from their old apartment to their new...in toboggans. This made absolute sense to me at the time. Dreams are cool. Anyway I lead the race for a long time, while Zak was singing Indian songs in his rap metal style. At the end of the race he yelled "Hey, Niklas!", I looked back, and found his toboggan in my face, knocking me unconscious. Next dream.

2\. I called Frederic in the middle of the night, for no reason at all. He was out partying. He was at a party with Martin and Malin (two of his friends) but was fiercly disappointed, because despite the fact that M&M were hosting a "gay night party", no-one was even slightly attractive. This did not stop Anders, one of Frederic's friends, from hitting on him like there was no tomorrow:

Anders: "Come on, you've thought about it!" Frederic: "No! No!"

The interesting part is that our call ended with Frederic being convinced. "Why not try it? I shall!" to which I screamed and hung up the phone.

3\. Mikaela and I were in France, at a party where a lot of exchange students were. We all sat down around a big table (which, come to think of it, resembles the weird wooden tables seen at a sushi joint located near my work-place) and spoke about music. I remember I had great visual problems, i.e. I couldn't focus on anything other than human faces. Yet now, when the dream is over, I cannot remember a single detail except for the unfocused parts. A French boy and I engaged in conversation around music. He loved a band that he thought imitated Belle & Sebastian, and so I listened to them. I remember the melodies were great, and the music reminiscent of Pulp, Scott Walker and The Zombies. I cannot remember anything about the music now, but the guy's walkman was very bizarre. It was black, had fluorescent paint on and writhed in my hands. Very William Burroughs!

Dreamy.
