---
title : "Suit-time, pope-time, USA vs abortion pills"
author : "Niklas"
date : "2005-04-21"
categories : 
 - clothes
 - health
 - insane
 - politics
 - video
---

Tomorrow Mikaela and I are going to Madrid with her parents and kids, to attend a wedding. One of Mikaela's cousins is getting married, so we're spending the week-end in Madrid. Yowsa! I'm going to snap a lot of pictures. You're not getting the picture of me in a suit right now, however, as I look riduculous in it: it's really Jesper's old graduation suit, which makes the jacket too big, the pants far too wide and as a bit of trivia, I found an invitation to Jesper's graduation party in the chest pocket. That party went down a decade ago. Nice. The shirt I'm wearing is way too big, yet all of this is somehow covered up by the trousers. When they come off, everybody will have fun, as if they're not gonna have that anyway! The partying will be vast, mesuspects.

[Here](http://onegoodmove.org/1gm/1gmarchive/002063.html) you'll find a wonderful QuickTime film of The Daily Show people commenting on the choice of pope, or rather, how the conservative American news failed to notice the white smoke bellowing out of the Vatican chimney. Fox News also displayed a nice little banner saying "We have a pope!". Nice.

Also, [The Guardian today reports](http://www.guardian.co.uk/usa/story/0,12271,1464644,00.html) on the US government trying to stop WHO from endorsing two abortion pills that could save the lives of 68000 women annually. That's just counting the 68000 who die from complications because of botched surgery post-birth, not including the many more who suffer their whole lives from this, e.g. becoming sterile or getting very serious infections. From the article:

> The Guardian understands that the US department of health and human services has been lobbying the director general's office at the WHO to block approval of the pills, in line with President George Bush's neoconservative stance on abortion.
> 
> While the availability of pills might make abortion easier and could increase the number choosing it, the experts want them listed to reduce the deaths and damage caused by surgery. Every year, 19 million women have unsafe abortions - 18.5 million of those take place in developing countries. An estimated 68,000 women die as a result of botched or unhygienic surgery, while many others suffer long-term damage, including sterility.

Conservative stance on abortion? The only thing Dubya (i.e. the current US government) cares about is money, raping other countries in a variety of ways and watching his own back. He's not very religious, apart from reading speeches prepared for him, in which there are a lot of biblical references. The difference is "God" has been swapped for "I" or "me".
