---
title : "Sicko"
author : "Niklas"
date : "2007-06-16"
categories : 
 - culture
 - health
 - heroes
 - insane
 - politics
---

I just saw "[Sicko](http://imdb.com/title/tt0386032)", the new documentary by Michael Moore.

I live in Sweden, a country that's hailed by George W. Bush as the forefront of success when it comes to privatising social security. The country in question is also hailed by Osama Bin Laden for its dedication to neutrality.

We have what in the USA is known as universal health-care, i.e. we pay for our health-care merely by paying taxes. Medicines cost a bit, but not very much (except for specials).

This might change, though. Our current government would love to be able to sell every single hospital to private companies, corporations and consortiums.

In the USA, everybody willing to seek health-care needs to fend for her or his self by paying ““ lots. Michael Moore shows a bit of the reality that more than 50 million Americans face: living without health insurance.

A guy lops off two tips of his fingers and needs to have them put back, but one costs $12,000 and the other a lot more \[I can't remember the exact number, but something like $30,000 isn't improbable\]. He chose the one that cost less, and ended up having to pay that obscene amount of money.

And so the stories go, throughout the film. Detainees in Guà ntanamo Bay get universal health-care, but not Americans. So Moore takes three people who helped out in New York during 2001-09-11 to Cuba, where they're instantly helped. They're diagnosed, get help and medication; where one person pays $120 for a bottle of medicine at home, she pays 5 cents (!) for it in Cuba. Think about it.

And we're shown basically the same thing in France and England. And in Canada, we're shown that Americans who need health-care at times end up marrying Canadians just to get universal health-care. Radiant.

The health-insurance companies are slammed as the money-grubbing, corporate )&â‚¬!=#!'s that they are.

All in all, this is much needed film that shows us what happens when a small elite earn a LOT of money from doing something they can do when they abuse their power, and the rest - i.e. the people - suffer.
