---
title : "Muxtape #21"
author : "Niklas"
date : "2008-09-25"
categories : 
 - music
---

So, it's time for the 21st installment of my compilation series titelled _insane shit without any discernible theme_. Here go the words:

1\. **Brad Fiedel** - "1"

This track is from the very rare all-songs edition of the soundtrack to "[Fright Night](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0089175)", the old 80s horror movie with Roddy McDowell and a lot of bad special effects. Of course, the soundtrack includes a lot of analogue synths, guitar solos and painfully obvious sounds to say ooh, this is scary!

2\. **SebastiAn** - "Ross Ross Ross"

When your music is this strong, why not repeat a word three times in the title? I love the way SebastiAn uses silence as emphasis.

3\. **Those Dancing Days** - "Space Hero Suits"

As this Swedish pop-outfit is bound to release their debut LP, this track is one of the better on it. Think naà¯ve 80s pop with production of today and you'll get a fair picture of their sound; and by the way, somebody voice-coach that singer, and they'd be beyond the skies!

4\. **Public Enemy** - "Fight The Power"

[The video by Spike Lee](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M_t13-0Joyc) is good, but the message of this track hits about as hard as the fact that Joely Richardson is anorectic:

> Elvis was a hero to most But he never meant shit to me you see Straight up racist that sucker was Simple and plain Mother fuck him and John Wayne Cause I'm Black and I'm proud I'm ready and hyped plus I'm amped Most of my heroes don't appear on no stamps

The problem being that there's no proof that Elvis ever _was_ racist - rather evidence to the contrary, as read in Peter Guralnick's masterpiece biography on Elvis - but still, Chuck D points a stabbing finger to show that rap is indeed, as he called it, "CNN for black people". For further interesting views on that, check [this video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IHIvMD3mgHk) where Chuck D comments how CNN questioned hip-hop to be "art or poison".

5\. **Rage Against The Machine** - "Know Your Enemy"

This track incites riots and builds resistance. Like Atari Teenage Riot once said, riot sounds produce riots! The same can be said about this track, from Rage Against The Machine's eponymous debut album, where singer Zack De La Rocha raps:

> Fight the war, fuck the norm Now I got no patience So sick of complacence With the D the E the F the I the A the N the C the E Mind of a revolutionary So clear the lane The finger to the land of the chains What? The land of the free? Whoever told you that is your enemy!

Indeed. Long live this track!

6\. **Funkacise Gang/Soul Grabber/Lil' Louis And The World** - "Funkacise/Motocross Madness/French Kiss"

This track is culled from 2 Many DJs magnificent mix album "[As Heard On Radio Soulwax Pt. 2](http://2manydjs.free.fr/articles.php?lng=en&pg=34)", an album that everybody should own. David Bowie does, which means you must, too.

7\. **House Jam** - "Gang Gang Dance"

A band that really make different tracks; it's a massive mix of rock-electronica-ragga. This song is a kind of laid-back electronica song, though.

8\. **Silver Sun** - "There Goes Summer"

Oh, as it's time for autumn to spread its wings, here's James Broad and company keeping that last beat of summer's heart pumping through our veins. Power-pop me out, please.
